Imouuc'rlou, 15

fifth), but does not occur in the sixth as it might
do according to Horace's statement (A. P. 255-
257). The scheme of the senarius with the varia·
tions met in the Medea. is as follows (figures de·
noting the verse in which each foot is met fi1·st):

w-cw-wsw-aer
-2229 —ch

vv* ἱ
“vv
1 νν2

The fifth foot is almost invariably a spondee or
an anapest. Vc. 488 and 670 can be treated as be·
ginning with a proceleusmatic‚ and some scholare
have declared that the anapest never occurs in the
second piace.

In the lyric passages are met a variety of me·
tres, 'Phe first chorus (vv. 56-115), though but
sixty lines in length, changes measure three times.
First is a passage of nineteen lines in the minor
asclepiad (as in H. O. 1, 1, etc.)‚'then eighteen gly-
conics, then seventeen more asclepiade and finaIly
six dactylic hexameters These meaaures do not
differ in structure from the same as written by
Horace. ¹
It is in the second chorus (vv. 301-379) that we
meet Seneca’s favorite choral measure, the ana·
pestic dimeter. The standard foot may give way
to a spondee or (except in the fourth place) to a
dactyl. The single lines are not regarded as inde·
’ pendent, but as parts of a continuous whole. The

 

